a burnoose yen I'm trying to live on not
much money but you're even going farther
with that and living without money yes
I'm just sharing with you so you're
helping me live without money yes
and you've done a lot of coach surfing
like I have it's been over three years
now where I haven't paid rent anywhere
I've just been travelling around and
couchsurfing and what I'm I home base is
still the Niagara region Toronto area
for me and I have siblings who have let
me I stay with them and I try to help
boats and but I know sometimes I still
feel like a mooch once in a while and
you said you've experienced that sooo a
little bit maybe maybe feeling like a
mooch how do you deal with that I'd say
I feel the perception from others that
they think were mooches and I don't want
them to feel that way it's I think a
condition of the way that we are grown
up in the community they don't want they
don't think so much about the waste the
overproduction they want everyone to
participate in the community even if we
have an overabundance and it's not being
shared and there's people's needs not
being met but don't have money to have
those needs met in that system so yeah I
think some people think okay yeah great
you're a freegan but you're using my
money you're using my couch you're using
my food you're using my car I would hope
that they would be open to consider it
as sharing that when I was using money I
would share and they have these things
and they will share and it is maybe
better for the community if we share a
home or share meals together even if we
are using money to use less money by
making dal with rice which is a one
dollar dinner we can share with many
people in India when they make dinner
for 100 people it doesn't cost them very
much money I mean it's coming from the
field
we both know money's not real they're
not really using money at all but yeah I
would hope that they would be open to me
giving in a different way rather than
something using money and that they
would be sharing basically 95% of what
we're consuming under capitalism is like
ethically questionable at best so you're
saying there rather than rants against
capitalism and money I should become a
capitalist then I could open up vegan
businesses and donate money to help the
animals no I'll never become a
capitalist there's no such thing as a
vegan capitalist veganism is about
equality capitalism is about inequality
even if a business uses no non-human
animals at all if that business is
making a profit is because of
exploitation they're exploiting the
humans and exploiting the workers
veganism is about compassion for all
beings including human beings
there's no ethical consumption under
capitalism veganism must be
anti-capitalist you know being a part of
the animal rights community is really
wonderful we've met so many fantastic
people who are we're happy to share yeah
exactly I find other activists are open
to sharing because it's for the same
cause so if they share a ride with me or
let me coach surf they know that that
helps us to have more time to go to the
events to go to the vigils so we've
talked to boats as far as not spending
money how to get around you've done
hitchhiking and I what about eat saying
have you ever I tried dumpster diving
with a friend once and I joined that she
actually went into the dumpster and she
passed the food out to me so I helped in
that way but you've done quite a bit of
dumpster diving yeah I love dumpster
diving I teach a lot of things at the
University I teach Marxism anarchism
feminism post-modernism all of the
radical philosophies of the day but none
of these philosophies are radical in the
sense that animal rights is and I began
to reflect that what is so radical about
animal rights as opposed to Marxism
anarchism feminism post-modernism and I
realized that it was a couple of things
number one unlike any of those other
philosophies it changed your daily
practices in habits it uprooted your
relationships with other people with
friends and family
so that if he learn Marxism you can go
home and sit calmly over the dinner
table smearing chicken wings all over
your face and talk about capitalist
exploitation without realizing the
immense contradiction of that discourse
and in other words you can carry on your
normal life and your daily habits are
not uprooted or challenged in any way
but with animal rights and the logical
consequence of ethical veganism those
relationships become ruptured in a way
that no other doctrine can cause this
turmoil in your everyday life if you're
living like us you have to be good
company you're not going to be taken
into someone's home if you're not good
company but you say you haven't had any
any terrifying experiences no not
terrifying but it wasn't terrifying for
me that someone accidentally thought I
was a prostitute so I reflected maybe I
wasn't dressed the best but I was
dressed normally with a giant
hitchhiking backpack but it was just a
miscommunication the last two years only
only only positive so I have nothing to
share with others that I would say be
scared I've mostly done it as a lone
woman be approachable I don't know if
that works I met guys who do it alone
and they would juggle they will be
holding a funny sign
I definitely think to talk for a few
moments before you get in a vehicle make
sure that they are going the same
direction that you don't have the
miscommunication that you are a
prostitute if you're living like us you
have to be good company
you're not going to be taken into
someone's home if you're not good
company whether we're using money or not
we're highly connected highly dependent
people would say okay you just depend on
others through we also do when we have
money bonus yen
the people we've just been watching on
camera are not hypocrites and the
philosophy or ideology they represent is
not popular in their way they're trying
to be morally consistent they're trying
very much to live out the philosophy
that they preach however what's more
influential within veganism are
precisely the voices of the hypocrites
hypocrites like Emily J Court esteemed
reporter for plant-based news let's take
a look at the title and front page of
this article here opinion : veganism
isn't cruelty free here's why spoilers
the reason why is Andy capitalism
what does cruelty-free mean anyway looky
here on screen when you see a product
labeled as cruelty-free that only means
its ingredients or finished product
wasn't tested on animals that that
doesn't sound too bad
why would anyone you know oppose that
concept or idea why would that be
something you'd objective oh right right
right right
capitalism okay we'll get back to that
so you've just seen video of people who
were living some kind of humble homeless
existence so that they could really live
up to their own principles of not using
money not being part of the system and
so on here's a Emily J court the
reporter whose article were we're just a
look at what what does this look like to
you
is this a socialist revolutionary in the
jungle oh no wait Instagram is
capitalism what is that a mojito what I
I'm not sure what kind of cocktail that
is this whole bar this whole lifestyle
that she espouses or glamorized on
Instagram if this isn't capitalism what
is oh here we go
another day another nightclub another
color filter to glamorize the evening so
this this isn't capitalism view this is
an embracing capitalist culture the
capitalist economy no living in a state
of rebellion except when
we go to the gym quote if I called
veganism aunty speciesism sometimes I
think it would be easier for people to
understand just like feminism it's about
the opposition of arbitrary
discrimination and exploitation period
no hidden agenda and that is part of the
problem with being a so-called
anti-capitalist or in plain language a
crypto communist within veganism is that
you do have a hidden agenda but it's
interesting that you say here that it
would be better to be vegan without a
hidden agenda I agree especially when
your hidden agenda isn't ideology that's
linked to the starvation and persecution
of millions of people in some of the
worst dictatorial regimes in the history
of planet Earth China Russia Cambodia
you name it
and we continue oh here she is again on
Instagram at the gym
our anti-capitalist poster girl Emily
Cort
what's this oh is this more capitalism
no no I'm sorry
um this luxury vegan pizza was purchased
in a communist country so so this this
makes it not capitalist right this is
purchased in Hanoi Vietnam maybe it was
her positive experience as a tourist in
Vietnam buying this kind of fancy vegan
pizza that made her think that
capitalism is the problem no I can't
imagine oh here we go
quote if you're looking for my paychecks
then go straight to all V Halifax ok so
this at least this we can call
capitalism you see this subtle contrast
between luxury vegan food in Vietnam and
luxury vegan food in the decadent
capitalist West in Halifax Canada yeah
oh here's a here's an antique a post
idea quote who wants to crowdfund me to
live in london question mark well gee
maybe she really is closer in principles
the people were just seeing talking
about living a life without money living
a life without paying rent because she's
interested in her donors paying for to
live in this capitalist paradise of
London England quite a high rent place
to live are you sure you wouldn't rather
live in a in a communist country
sure you wouldn't rather live in a non
capitalist society given where this
article is going okay here we are
enjoying a fabulous luxury capitalist
vehicle with leatherette seating and
here you are with the staff members of
plant-based news oh I'd like to imagine
that they pay you a salary but maybe
they don't for all I know you guys are
organized on collectivist wage free
principles okay we begin at the bottom
here a quote when we call something
cruelty free while overlooking the fact
that it is the product of exploitative
industries in developing nations we
leave ourselves open as advocates to
detracting from our own message instead
of having a comfort instead of having a
conversion of God so this even as a nun
corrected typos instead of having a
conversation she means to say about
liberation reducing harm we end up
having conversation about human rights
which while equally important detracts
from the topic at hand here's a
politically correct photograph everyone
putting their hands in the circle people
of all uh no genders and races and
what-have-you
problematic notions using the term
ultimately perpetuates the idea that
once a person goes vegan and stops
investing in histories that are by
nature exploitive again that should be
exploitative not exploitive anyway
they've ascended to a higher moral plane
and are beyond reproach this simply
isn't true period
capitalism is destructive consumerism is
destructive and animal agriculture is
not the only cruel industry in existence
we do ourselves other people and animals
a disservice by acting like it is
veganism is a great place to start but
it's not the finish line we shouldn't
fool ourselves into thinking that it is
um
in putting together this video I really
did try to do a survey of the
anti-capitalist vegan left I tried to
get some sense of how numerous they are
and how active they are and I was really
surprised before I ever came on YouTube
I was involved with the intellectual
demi-monde
of vegan tumblr or written blog and
being on the Internet you often notice
the voices that are not the most
numerous but are the most noisy and the
most malcontents and you really get the
false impression that there's a whole
lot going on on the anti-capitalist left
within veganism but the reality is the
silent majority the silent majority by
far are not making any kind of
backhanded comparison between capitalism
and communism nor between capitalism and
feudalism nor between capitalism and
some kind of fantasy about cashless
primitive anarchism those really are
marginal voices than the vegan movement
and I think it's important in terms of
how we organize the movement now we
present information that we make it
clear that that shouldn't be the
mainstream news broadcaster news
presenter that shouldn't be treated as a
definitive central or default position
within veganism these are voices from
the margins of what's already a marginal
movement to begin with veganism there
are two types of voices in this fringe
debate one group are the people who
really sincerely practice what they
preach and you almost eliminate
themselves in the movement because
economically it ceases to be possible
for them to participate let alone lead
the movement because they're either
gonna go and live in a cage there are
they gonna go and live in a cave or
they're gonna be perpetually hitchhiking
couch surfing etc like some of the
people you heard in the first half of
the video and then the other hand we're
gonna continue to get sarcastic sniping
from people who are hypocrites people
who in fact in terms of how they live
their lives are indeed capitalists but
who still preach a
kind of hypocritical doctrine of crypto
communism as I said years ago on my blog
before I came on YouTube
veganism is fractious and fragmentary
it's incredibly diverse ideologically
economically in every conceivable way
we have people who come to veganism out
of a traditional Hindu religious
background out of a Buddhist background
paradox ly enough out of an Orthodox
Jewish background big vegan movement in
Israel some of its secular some of the
religious so on and so forth there's a
dazzling array of left wing right wing
every shade of gray in between so some
of these debates can legitimately exist
within veganism and some of these
debates are gonna in effect get people
kicked out of veganism can I get them
kicked out of whatever movement they
have to be a member of I've had many
many videos asking the question of where
do we draw the line and when do we in
effect kick people out for being so
right-wing that they're in effect
neo-nazis or you know when it's just
somebody like durianrider when it's
somebody whose behavior is someone
acceptable and disruptive and immoral
that they have to be excluded for other
reasons that may be completely
apolitical those are very difficult
questions answer and they're very
difficult to enforce
I think the way forward if you have
people in your life who subscribe to a
nebulous and hypocritical doctrine of
anti capitalism is to really sit down
with them and get them to talk through
what et capitalism means I think it's an
ideology that thrives on vagueness
innuendo shadow and contradiction and
that when people are really honest that
they don't want to go back to a feudal
society that they don't want to go back
to a communist society that in fact the
idea of cash lessness really is the kind
of religious ideal whether it appears in
Christianity Buddhism or in this kind of
secular left-wing ideology I think that
the vast majority of people who at some
stage of their life worship an
anti-capitalist doctrine are simply
going to move on I remember reading an
article that said about the communist
country of Laos a country I lived in did
a research and did humanitarian work and
simply put Buddhism
proved to be more aesthetically durable
than communism the communism had taken
over the country but just didn't last in
the same way my hope is that veganism is
going to prove more aesthetically
durable then all of the fad ideologies
that arise and fall within it which
unfortunately has included the crazy 30
bananas a day diet of freely to all
these inane varieties of left-wing
radicals
[Music]
evolution